[THEME MUSIC]
>>ANNOUNCER: And
now, world renowned
spirit medium, James Van Praagh.
[APPLAUSE]
>>JAMES VAN PRAAGH:
Hi, everyone.
How are you?
How are you doing?
Good, good, good.
Thank you for being here.
And thank you also
for joining us today
on another episode of Spirit
Talk, where I take you
one step closer to heaven.
So today, we're going to
talk about psychic ability,
psychic, psychic
ability, knowingness.
How many people here
think you're psychic?
Raise your hand?
One, two, three, four,
five, six, seven.
And why didn't you
guys raise your hand?
Now, the truth is,
everybody is psychic.
Everybody is born with
what's called intuition.
And intuition means
into the soul.
It's the language of the soul.
And we're all born
with it, because it's
kind of our survival technique.
We need this in order to
survive and to live life.
And that is really our--
we're born with it.
It's a sixth sense.
And we all have it.
We all possess a sixth sense.
How many people
here, for instance,
have thought about someone, five
minutes later, the phone rings,
and it's the person
you were thinking of?
Raise your hand.
And you at home?
Yeah.
Or something you had in your
mind, a vision that happened,
or a scenario
playing in my mind,
and all of a sudden, the
next day, it happens.
Yes?
Those people, yes.
There are all different
types of intuition
and how you use your intuition.
And you can develop
your intuition.
Everybody is psychic
from a degree or another.
There are some souls who
come into this world who
have maybe a little
bit more sensitivity
than most and like
myself, who are empaths.
We're empaths.
We pick up energy.
We feel things.
But every single
person can certainly
develop their psychic,
their intuition ability.
And today, I'm going to
show you a technique which
you can use to further
develop this psychic ability.
And I think once you do this
and you become aware of this,
you will be amazed at
yourself and amazed
at the possibilities, yes.
You know, children are
very, very psychic.
And we know that.
And the reason why
children are very psychic
is because they've just
come for the spirit world.
And they're very, very open.
And in their mindset, they
feel more, they see things,
they know things.
And a child has not learned
yet how to be judgmental,
how to put things
into categories.
They're really just open to
whatever is going to happen.
They'll always tell
you the truth, a child.
you exactly the truth.
So it's very interesting.
I think around the
age of seven or eight,
they learned then to be
a little bit judgmental.
Or they say certain
things that they
think the parents want to
hear or something like that.
So it makes sense, doesn't it?
I know there are a lot of
people here who have children.
Yes, a lot of you.
And so you can probably
relate to that, yes.
Good.
Any questions before we start?
Young lady, you have a question.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And would
you mind standing up?
Would that be OK, sweetheart?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK,
request-- what's your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Carol.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hi, Carol.
>>AUDIENCE: Hi.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Nice to meet you
>>AUDIENCE: Nice to meet you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
What question would you ask?
>>AUDIENCE: So James,
how long have you
been able to communicate
with the dead?
>>VAN PRAAGH: How long
have I been a medium?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: A medium--
ever since I was alive.
Bum, bum, bum.
So as I just spoke about, as a
child, I was very, very open.
And I was able to see
spirit around people.
I was able to colors
around people,
now we know as the
aura, the aura colors.
And I was able to know of things
before they would happen--
so very, very psychic
and very mediumistic,
which are two very distinctly
different things, yeah?
Psychic ability
is a knowingness.
We all have a knowingness, yes?
And the mediumship is you
have to first be very psychic,
have a very strong foundation
of the psychic ability.
But then you also,
if you will, reach up
to a higher level
of energy, and be
able to be the interface
between the higher
energies of the spirit world and
the lower of the earth world.
So it's a little bit different.
So you have the psychic, and
then you have the mediumship.
So ever since I
remember, actually.
But I will tell you something.
I also developed it
further and further.
I sat for many,
many years in what's
called a development circle,
which everybody can sit in.
A development circle, it's
like a meditation circle.
And you really work
with bringing up
the energy, the energy systems,
the energy centers opening up,
how to develop, and
really, how to then discern
what the different energies that
might come through around you,
that are around you, the
person that you're working
with in the physical
body, soul reading,
being able to read their soul,
and picking up on the energies.
That's something--
everybody can indeed
sit in a development circle.
Yeah, good.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And you
yourself are very psychic.
I think that you've
shut it down, yes?
Because I think when
you were young girl,
you used to be very, very
in tune, very, very psychic,
very connected.
And I think-- I
don't know if it was
your mother who stopped you.
Or you saw things
that would happen.
But it stops, you know.
You shut it off.
Is that right?
I think so.
>>AUDIENCE: A lot of us do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: A lot of us do.
A lot of us are all empaths.
We're empathetic.
So as empaths, we
pick up things.
And we don't know how to
really ground ourselves.
And we think the bad things
are really going to happen
and the good things.
And we really don't know how
to moderate these things--
modulation I should say.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: All right.
Thank you, sweet heart.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, good.
So would you like to tune
into your knowingness?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes?
Very, very good.
So the first thing
we're going to do
is we're going to do
a little bit of what
I call a meditation for you.
And that is really to blend
the energies together,
and the people at
home as well so you
can become part of
this experience.
We're just going to blend all
of our energy together as one
and make it very receptive.
So when we do the
intuition work,
when we do the
psychic work, we're
able to receive the
energy easier, OK?
So I'm just to ask you
to just close your eyes
and put your feet on the floor.
Great.
I'm just going to lead you
in a slight meditation,
a small meditation, just to
open you up to your knowingness.
Great.
So those at home that
are watching right now,
you also can just
close your eyes
and listen to my voice and the
sound of the music behind it.
And as you sit in
the chairs here,
just be connected to
the physical body.
Be mindful of your
feet on the floor.
And close your eyes.
Be mindful of your legs.
Be mindful of the physical body,
your backs upon the chairs,
your shoulders and your arms
and your hands, your neck,
your head, and just become
aware of this physical vessel.
Maybe there are some
aches and pains.
You can acknowledge them.
But don't give them
too much energy.
Don't give them too much energy.
Realize that you have
it, and then move on.
And realize that
really who you are
is a spiritual being having
a human experience, and not
the other way around.
So just with that
thought in your mind,
if you would just
think, realize, just
have that awareness that you
are a souled being, a spiritual
being encased in a
physical human shell.
But as a spirit, you have a very
strong sense of knowingness,
of awareness.
We are all connected.
We are all one energy.
And just imagine right now that
there's a beautiful green light
in your heart, this beautiful
green light in your heart.
And there's a center of healing.
This is your center, a really,
really beautiful center
of unconditional love,
of peace, of forgiveness.
Just be mindful of that.
Be also very, very aware
of the center below that.
Right in the middle of your
stomach is the solar plexus.
And that's a yellow, a bright,
bright yellow color, bright,
bright yellow gold color.
And if it's hard for
you to imagine that,
you can just maybe picture
a golden sun coming down
into the body and sitting
right in your tummy,
a beautiful golden yellow sun.
This is your seat
of knowingness.
This is your main
psychic center,
the center of knowingness.
And it is what it is.
And that's all that it is.
And just connect with that
beautiful yellow center.
It is not what you
think, but how you feel.
So just become aware
that all of your thoughts
drop down to your stomach.
Everything in the mind
goes down to the stomach.
And just open up that
sense of knowingness,
that sense of feeling.
There is no judgment.
It just is being, a
strong sense of beingness,
a strong sense of knowingness.
And as you do that,
remember that you are love.
You are loved by the spirit
world all around you.
We all have guides.
We have loved ones
who have passed over.
They are here with
you all the time.
They are surrounding you.
And they will blend
with you and help
you to step into
that knowingness,
to step into your
psychic ability
and just open up and be
the truth that you are.
So as you feel the love of
the spirit all around you,
they surround you in
a green light of love.
So now as you have that
beautiful green light of love,
just surround the person next
to you on the right side of you.
Surround the person next to you
with this beautiful green light
of love.
And slowly open up your eyes.
And be as one.
So did you enjoy that?
I hope so.
Did you enjoy that?
Yes?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes?
Very good.
[APPLAUSE]
Great.
So what I'd like to now is
just to demonstrate with you
about the psychic work, about
how you yourself can read.
And I would like to do
that with just showing you
how to do an exercise.
And I'm going to do it first
and show you how to do it.
And then you're going to do it.
So don't be too scared.
I'm going guide you through it.
Young lady, would you mind
working with me today?
I'm going to have you come
up here, if that's OK?
Hi, Gianna.
>>AUDIENCE: Hi.
>>VAN PRAAGH: How are you?
>>AUDIENCE: Great.
How are you?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good, good, good.
So I'm going to do a psychic
exercise with you, which
I'm going to have
all the audience do.
So you guys better
be watching this.
Watch out for my back.
Excuse my back.
And I just wanted
to show you how
you can tune into the
knowingness, yeah?
So I'm going to ask
Gianna for an object
that you have on your
person, whether it's
a ring, a watch,
whatever you have.
And you have--
>>AUDIENCE: I do
have a ring, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You have a ring.
OK, great.
So I'm going to tune into
the energy on the ring.
So we are all energy.
We are all molecules
that vibrate or move
at a certain rate of speed, yes?
So what happens is Gianna's
energy is on this ring.
Now this could be, if it
belonged to somebody else,
there might be somebody
else's energy on this ring.
Let's say it was a
grandmother or someone else.
Her energy could be on the ring.
Also, you could find out more
about the history of the ring,
where she bought
the ring, how it
was given to her,
the circumstances
that she obtained this ring.
So I'm just going to see
what I get from this.
And this is just the
sense of knowingness.
It's intuition.
It's nothing to do
with the mediumship.
So it's nothing to do spirit.
It's just going to be
what I'm picking up
from you psychically, OK?
OK, so number one, the first
thing I get very, very much
is you are a very
compassionate individual.
You're very, very
much a person who
came onto this
earth who feels as
if you didn't fit in right away.
And you always felt very
different from everybody else.
And you were very much a
loner when you were a kid.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
And I know that you felt that.
And were you one
of three children?
>>AUDIENCE: Two.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Two children.
And was there one that was
lost or one miscarried, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: See,
because I know.
I know there was one of three.
And I just get that from
this information right
from here, OK?
I know you're a
very creative soul.
I know you have come back
with a very strong gift
would be with colors.
So artwork be very good for you.
Aesthetics, design work would
be very, very good for you.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And also like a
clothing design as well.
You're very, very good at
putting aesthetics together.
I can say fabrics together,
aesthetics together.
You put things together
very, very nicely as far as
in the atmosphere and the
environment that you have.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're also very
much a leader in your family
in that you came back into
this world at this time
because you have to be a leader,
because the rest of your family
members were not as strong.
And when you were a young
girl, you had to be the adult.
So one of the adults
was not there for you
emotionally when you
were a young girl.
Does that make sense?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I need to let you know
that your soul-- and this is
all I'm getting from this--
that you just came in
to help in that role of
the adult as a child,
because you were the leader.
You're the pioneer.
And you've been a leader in
many, many lifetimes as well.
But that's who your spirit is.
You're a very, I said before, a
very compassionate individual.
You're very sensitive,
sometimes too sensitive.
And your someone
who tends to wear
their heart on their sleeve, OK?
You're also a person who
I feel very, very much
with a lot of money
around you coming to you.
I feel this
lifetime-- thank you.
Yes.
We love that.
We love that, right?
I just got to tell
you that I feel
as if you have earned that.
Karmically, you
have earned that.
And I think we do.
And I think that
money is an energy.
It's what you do with
it that matters, yes?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I think that
will be coming to you in waves.
You don't even have to
go out and look for it.
It will come to you.
It's like your fortune.
And I don't feel like
you have to marry for it.
I just feel it's going
to find its way to you.
It will.
And it will be just
going on you path.
Just go on on your path.
I got to tell you that I feel
when you were a young girl,
the family is very
strong around you.
And I know religion would be
strong around you as well.
I know that you must have
come in as either a Catholic
or a Christian or
something like this, yes?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know this
looks like a cross here too.
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, it is.
It's Jesus.
Oh, all right.
I didn't see that.
OK.
And can I just-- was this made
from somebody else's cross
was this made for you?
>>AUDIENCE: It was made
specifically for me, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's right.
That's right.
Because that's what I felt.
I felt it was made for you.
It was strongly for you.
And I'm going to
tell you-- I'm not
going to get to the
mediumship, but I could.
Because you're very open.
There's a grandmother here.
There's a woman standing
right next to me here.
I'm not sure if it's your mom.
Did you mom pass over?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
it's a grandmother.
>>AUDIENCE: Gramdother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Grandmother.
But I don't want to do that yet.
Because I could easily go there,
because I'm used to doing that.
That's what I'm used to
going to, that level.
But I just want stay in the
psychic, psychic, level,
the very psychic level.
I will tell you that if-- I
don't know you're married now.
But if you're not
married, you will be.
If you're not--
>>AUDIENCE: No, OK.
I'm not.
So that's good news.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Well, you wil be.
And I'm psychically
telling you this.
There's going to
be, on a December,
not this year, but the December.
Remember the month of December
will be very significant as far
as a relationship.
You're not going
to be someone who
has to go and kiss many, many
frogs to find the prince.
You're going to find-- I feel
like it's the second person.
But it's not gonna be
that difficult for you.
I'm gong to tell you
I feel it's, again
a karmic type of relationship.
You're going to
know this person.
And I want to tell you that
I'm psychically picking up
it could be a name like a P
name, like a Peter or a Paul.
P-- comes, and
that's what I feel.
I do feel that you're also
going to go to Europe.
I feel that water in
Europe is important,
like looking over at
France, or the water there,
the Mediterranean, something
like that, or Italy.
And I do feel as if you're going
to go there to honeymoon, yes?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, nice.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And that's
what I pick up, yeah.
I also pick up two
children for you, for you.
And you're going to make
a great, great mother.
And that's gong
to be a great joy.
But you're going to
find there's going
to be a little difficulty
in balancing your career
life and your family life.
And that's going to take
some adjustment, OK?
So I got to tell you that.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: All
right, darling?
>>AUDIENCE: That's amazing.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Is that good?
Did that make sense?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, that's great.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, here you go.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you so much.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you, sweetheart.
Thank you.
Yeah, there we go.
Right?
Now, did you see
how open she was?
She was very, very open.
And she was very,
very just calm.
She wasn't nervous.
She was just like open.
And it flowed.
It flowed.
So if you have a partner
that's very closed or nervous
or wanting a
certain agenda, it's
going to be hard for
you to read them.
So I'd like you to find
a partner next to you.
And you at home, you can
do this-- with someone
you don't know would be best.
So turn to the
person next to you.
You're going to
work with a partner.
And what I want you to do is I
want you to exchange an object,
whether it's a ring, whether
it's-- you can even use
the hand of the
person if you want to.
That's fine.
And what's going to
happen is that you're
going to read each other
psychically, right?
You're going to read
each other psychically.
I don't want you to
talk to them necessarily
like I was talking
to Gianna here.
I just want you to hold that.
I'll tell you when you
can share the information.
So I just want you to
hold the information.
And then I want you
to close your eyes.
Hold it to your gut,
you psychic center.
And in your mind, I just want
you to start picking things up.
And don't think about it.
Just start picking things up.
And then I'll tell you
when you can share, OK?
Exchange at the same time.
You can exchange now.
Cool.
At home, you can do this too.
Exchange with somebody
you don't know though.
All right.
Now close your eyes if you want.
And then bring it into your gut.
And whatever you start picking
up, just put into your mind.
And I'll tell you
when you can share.
Don't try to rationalize.
Don't try to fit it
into some conditioning.
Whatever you feel-- it
might be the weirdest thing
you get-- that's fine.
It's not about you.
See, now you're
getting more into it
because the energy is
shifting in the room.
OK, now you can share with
the person, your partner,
exactly what you got.
You can take turns sharing.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
OK, can I jump in
and interrupt you?
How'd you do?
You like it?
>>AUDIENCE: Good.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I noticed
that the more you got into it
and the more you gave
yourself permission to feel,
the easier it got, right?
I mean, did it?
Is it?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And do you find
that the more you feel it
instead of think in
of it, it's easier?
Yes.
Can I share?
Can we share some
things that happened?
I'm going to go to you two,
because you guys were lit up.
You were lit it up.
So let me ask you, how
was your experience?
>>AUDIENCE: Great.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK,
so what happened?
Tell us what happened.
>>AUDIENCE: Amazing.
>>AUDIENCE: I totally got her.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Tell
us what happened.
Tell us how you got her.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, she really did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Tell the
details that came through.
>>AUDIENCE: She's
so vibrant that I
could tell that she was
some sort of teacher.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You said
that you were a teacher?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And you got it?
And you're a teacher?
>>AUDIENCE: She just
kind of edged into it.
And she was like, you
must be a teacher.
And I'm like, yeah.
I'm a yoga teacher.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great, great.
>>AUDIENCE: That was amazing.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Anything else?
This is good.
>>AUDIENCE: Just her
personality was in her item.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Like what?
Tell us what it was.
What were her
personality traits?
>>AUDIENCE: She had a ring.
And the ring was kind of heavy.
And it had significance.
So I feel like she's
a weighted person
with a lot of significance.
And the object is her in a way.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do you think
she weighs herself down
sometimes with stuff?
>>AUDIENCE: Maybe.
That could be
exactly the feeling.
That's probably it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You think?
>>AUDIENCE: Sure,
absolutely, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And what did
you get for this lovely lady?
And what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: I'm Susan.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Susan.
And you are?
>>AUDIENCE: Andrea.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Andrea.
So what did you get for Andrea?
>>AUDIENCE: I thought when
I was holding the scarf,
I felt her warmth, like
she's a very warm--
>>VAN PRAAGH: --a warm
person, compassionate.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah,
and joyful, too.
She's very like a very light.
It's a light scarf.
>>AUDIENCE: That's pretty true.
>>AUDIENCE: It was just
like a light feeling.
>>AUDIENCE: I like music.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah--
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes--
>>VAN PRAAGH: A lightness.
>>AUDIENCE: Exactly.
And then I though of earth.
And we were kind of going there.
And she's a gardener.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, and you're
a gardener Oh, very good.
Very good.
Give them a round of applause.
That's good.
Good girls.
Very good, very good.
So what are your names?
>>AUDIENCE: Grace
>>VAN PRAAGH: Grace.
>>AUDIENCE: CJ
>>VAN PRAAGH: CJ.
Would you mind standing up?
Would that be OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Sure.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
So who wants to go first
and tell us what you got?
>>AUDIENCE: The first thing I
felt very strongly was grandma.
And she got the ring
through her grandmother.
And it meant a lot to her.
And it was passed on to you,
which meant a lot to you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And that
makes sense to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Actually,
it was my mom--
>>AUDIENCE: It was her mom.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Her mother, OK.
>>AUDIENCE: --who's passed on.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
>>AUDIENCE: But
that's what I felt.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And what did you
get, sweetheart?
>>AUDIENCE: I saw her outside.
And she said she had
just retired as a cop.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh,
wow, very good.
>>AUDIENCE: And she's
going to be a park ranger.
>>VAN PRAAGH: As a
cop-- this is great.
You probably made a great
cop with your intuition.
>>AUDIENCE: She just got
a job as a park ranger.
So there was the outside.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, very good.
>>AUDIENCE: I just
got it three days ago.
And I was retired for
about a year and a half.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh,
wow, very good.
Very good, very good, very good.
Thank you.
Very good.
Wow.
And what I want to
do now is I want
to do another kind of
exercise where you just-- it's
just the energy that
you pick up, yes?
So I would like this young lady.
Would you mind standing?
And what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Janet.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Janet.
There you go, Janet.
Janet.
So Janet-- and this is
just a hypothetical.
But as you look
in this room here
and you look around
the audience here,
and if you want someone to
give you a reading, just--
and don't take it personally.
Who do you feel attracted to?
Who would you want a
reading from as you
look around this room.
Besides me, beside me.
I don't count.
Pretend I'm not here.
>>AUDIENCE: You
didn't clarify that.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
Besides me.
>>AUDIENCE: I guess
I'm drawn to this lady
here in the blond hair.
>>VAN PRAAGH: The white hair?
>>AUDIENCE: Gray hair-- blonde.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Blonde.
And why are you
attracted to her.
>>AUDIENCE: I don't know.
She just is--
she's sticking out.
I mean, she's just prominent
in what I see here.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So your energy
is the attracted there
for some reason.
There's something about her.
There's a light.
There's an energy.
There's some knowingness
that psychically you're
picking up something that
you're connecting with her.
Yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: OK, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Very good.
Very good.
Thank you, darling.
Sweetheart, would
you mind standing up?
And I want you to
do the same thing,
so just as you feel the energy
you're being pulled toward.
Psychically being pulled to
this energy, what do you feel?
If you want to be
read by somebody
or even if you want to get
to know somebody better,
who do feel attracted toward?
And we're not talking
physically now.
We're just talking
energetically.
Energetically, besides
me, energetically,
what do you feel?
>>AUDIENCE: I'm feeling
the same way with her.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Now,
isn't that interesting?
Isn't that interesting?
This is exactly what I
thought was going to happen.
And the reason why is
because like attracts like.
So it's like a wavelength.
And you will be attracted to
the same type of individual,
the same type of personality.
And it's the same level.
Interesting, isn't it?
Very interesting.
Thank you, my love.
Thank you very much.
And young man?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes?
>>VAN PRAAGH: How are you?
>>AUDIENCE: Just fine.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would
you mind standing?
>>AUDIENCE: Sure.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
I bet you ride a motorcycle.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Psychic.
What's your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Leonard.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Leonard.
Hi, Leonard.
What would-- same
thing with you.
I just want to go
around and just see.
And hold the microphone close to
your mouth so we can hear you.
So look all around.
>>AUDIENCE: The lady over there.
>>VAN PRAAGH: The lady in the--
>>AUDIENCE: --the purple
>>VAN PRAAGH: --the purple.
I like that.
Now, why is that?
Why do you feel a
connection there?
>>AUDIENCE: Maybe
something from my family.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Something
from your family.
>>AUDIENCE: Like an aunt or
something that has passed on.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Besides
the aunt, what do you
feel about this
person here though?
>>AUDIENCE: That she's
a very good person.
>>VAN PRAAGH: A good person.
>>AUDIENCE: Very kind.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Kind
and compassionate.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, right, right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good,
good, good, good, good.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
I'm going to put this here.
I think that he read you.
And it's the first time
he's done this, of course.
So I think that was good
for a very beginning.
And once you start trusting
the more information you're
getting, as you
did the exercise,
you start trusting
it, you really
will really start to
get more stuff, yeah?
I also think that--
may I come to you?
Would that be OK
if I work with you?
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
What is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Betsy.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Betsy.
Betsy, the reason
I want to talk to
is because as this gentleman
was speaking to you,
I started seeing
spirit around you.
And I'd like to
connect with you, OK?
I think he was accurate.
I think he was just beginning
to scratch the surface.
But I think he also is very
accurate when he says--
and I'm going to go from
now the psychic reading
to the mediumship
and see how it works.
>>AUDIENCE: Great.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I agree
with him that you're
very, very compassionate.
You're a very giving person.
I feel like you had to learn
to put up your boundaries
and defenses early on.
Because I think when
you were a young girl
there was abuse issues there.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I understand that.
You're dad's passed into
the world of the spirit.
Is that correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because as I
stand her to work with you,
your father comes over to me.
And there are uncles as well.
And there are other
people behind them.
The uncles come in first.
And the aunts come behind
them, which is very odd for me
to see that.
Because you usually
have the women first,
the men behind them.
But for some reason,
your father and brothers
want to come in
and speak to you.
And I want to go back
to an abuse issue
when I'm a young girl, OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I
just want to apologize.
And I want to say I'm sorry.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You understand?
And I know around the age of
seven, the age of eight-- seven
and eight years of age--
this happened, correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know that
your father is just very--
I feel there was a very
dysfunctional family.
And I think that your dad came
from a dysfunctional family.
And I think that things
were not said, you know?
Everything was secretive--
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: --in
the family line.
Notice I say the family line,
not necessarily just your dad,
but his whole family, like these
two brothers I see with him.
And who is a rose?
I'm seeing a rose.
>>AUDIENCE: It's my mother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your mother.
And it's a rose.
>>AUDIENCE: My mom
is not in spirit.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Mom's still alive?
Mom's still alive.
So I know what he's
talking to me about rose.
So would they call
your mother Rose?
Did he call your
mother Rosa or Rose.
>>AUDIENCE: No, he
used to call her Rosie.
And it twerked her off.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, OK.
All right.
Maybe that's why he's saying it.
>>AUDIENCE: Maybe.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I know that.
I know that he's coming
and mentioning her.
And I want to talk
about the prayers
that she sent him
after he passes.
Now I'm going to tell you
something from your father.
I get a really
strong sense of he
understands that things in his
life-- he's not proud of things
that he did in life.
There were things he was
not honest about in life.
And I know that he tried
to get over on some people.
And I know that he didn't
talk to some family
members for a long
period of time.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that.
And I know that he's
trying to apologize
to you and other siblings here.
Who has ties toward
Texas at one time?
>>AUDIENCE: I have an aunt
who lived there for awhile.
>>VAN PRAAGH: In Texas, OK?
And I don't know if
you would understand
the name of Parker,
the name Parker.
Last name would
be Parker or Park.
But this is something I
need to ask you about.
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Don't know that.
Don't know why Parker or Park.
And did your dad have
a drinking problem?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do
you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I know
that that drinking problem
with this gentleman,
I know the name
Park or Parker is
significant, OK?
Because I know in my mind,
as he projects into my mind
a certain memory that
he has, that that name
would be important.
So it could be Park Avenue,
Park Street, Parker.
And I'm just going
to throw it at you
because I know it's significant.
I know also, by the way,
before he passes over,
was he not able to communicate?
>>AUDIENCE: Correct.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Did he
ever have a cowboy hat?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're
sure about that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Who had the cowboy hat
or wears a cowboy hat?
Pretty much everybody around us.
My sister used to wear one.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Did
you recently see her?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, would you know
if she has a straw cowboy hat?
>>AUDIENCE: She does.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And would you know
that there's hole in the rim.
There's a little hole.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes,
there is, because you're
dad is telling me that.
He says, there's a
hole in the brim.
There's a hole in the brim.
And she plays with it like this.
He see her play
with it like this.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah,
when she was younger.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know
there's a Jimmy somewhere.
>>AUDIENCE: That is my father.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
So the name Jimmy comes in.
And he's bringing me that name.
And I know I get with Jimmy that
you really have to forgive him.
I really got to
give that to you.
I've got to tell you that
because I know that he only
could do with the
capacity he knew, yes?
>>AUDIENCE: And I
understand that.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And didn't
he have another family
separate from your family?
Wasn't there another, like a
step family or another family--
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: --wasn't there.
>>AUDIENCE: He was
married before.
>>VAN PRAAGH: There you go.
So I know that there's
another family before,
because he gives me
that sense or that
feeling that there's
another family before.
And he really was--
he said he wasn't
fully honest with everybody.
I also want to talk about
who had a tractor or was--
>>VAN PRAAGH: He
did have a tractor.
Great.
What did he used to
use that tractor for?
Was it just fun?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, he
grew up on a farm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
>>AUDIENCE: And so he
got this old tractor
and rode it everywhere.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, so see,
he's known for this tractor.
And that's very significant
that he speaks about that.
And do you know if your
sister, by the way,
was going to go to a-- go what?
Go away?
She was going to-- She
was going to go away.
Your sister was
going to go away.
Do you understand about that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Where's your mom now?
>>AUDIENCE: She lives with
my sister across town.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Are you not getting
along with that sister?
Or there's something
came up with that sister
and your mother, please?
>>AUDIENCE: It makes it
hard for me to see mom.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know.
>>AUDIENCE: Because
they live together.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Exactly.
And that's what your
dad is getting at.
And there's men behind
him, these uncles.
There's a grandmother over
there and a grandfather.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I got to tell you
I feel you were closer
to your grandmother
when you were growing
up in many, many ways.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I gotta tell you that the
spirit world works really,
really hard to be here.
They work really, really
hard to come here.
And for the healing it
takes them to come here
and to help to heal you
and for you to be here,
I got to tell you that
there's no accidents.
I believe there's
divine intervention.
And I know that you
must have been raised
with a Bible or
religion and reading.
Who's reading the
passages of the Bible
or reading the passages?
Was your grandmother
very religious, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because I keep on being
reciting passages of the Bible.
And she's like, the
Lord is my shepherd.
I shall not want.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So we're going to do a
whole bunch of stuff here.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
I want to tell you
that the spirit people learn
from us here on the earth.
Just because they pass
over to the spirit world
does not mean that they
have all the answers.
We help them down here.
And the best thing we
can do to help them
is to live the best
life possible down here.
So for instance, I know
that the past was the past.
And I know that it
wasn't a fun past.
And I know that it wasn't sunny
on your side of the street.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know that.
>>AUDIENCE: I know
there was some violence.
I know there was some abuse.
And we know this.
But now we're going to
start to let it go--
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: --and forgive it.
Because if we don't, and
we hold onto that energy,
it starts eating away at us.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You understand?
And I got to tell
you, there's nothing
if we hold on to things.
And it's your choice, of course.
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's
all of our choices.
If we hold on to past
hurts and past ways
and don't forgive people because
they don't see who we might be,
we're just as bad as they are.
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
know what I mean?
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I think that you
have that capacity of a
healer, a strong healer.
And I know-- because
this grandmother lady
keeps on showing me this
Bible thing, the prayer thing.
As she said, you have prayed.
You have asked
your prayers to be
answered for the
past 2 and 1/2 years.
You have asked prayers to
be-- you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes,
certainly, I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
You've been asking.
She's been making that
very, very strong.
And she said, and here we
are, answering your prayer.
Won't you listen to us?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So sometimes we got it to take
you and hit you over the head,
and to listen.
And did you have two marriages,
two relationships yourself?
>>AUDIENCE: Sure.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good.
It's just she's just
telling you this.
And it's almost as if
I want them to heal me,
to bring me back together again.
And you know, if you
could see what I see,
boy, you'd be just lighting up.
You'd be lighting up.
I also want to tell
you that there's
an animal, a dog
that passed over.
And you put the dog down.
And the dog passed over.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I want to give
you this doggy.
OK.
I'm going to you this doggy.
And I don't know if you wanted
to do something-- hold on.
What?
OK.
You wanted-- there was something
a little strange that you
wanted when the dog was down.
I don't know if
you wanted a clip
or something of the
hair of the dog.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, my god, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that?
And you wanted this.
>>AUDIENCE: I took
a snip of his tail.
>>VAN PRAAGH: The tail.
I was going to say the tail.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'm sorry.
Sorry.
Dang it.
It would have verified it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It was
right toward the end,
like the very tip.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It
wasn't a reddish?
Was it a reddish brownish thing?
What was it?
>>AUDIENCE: He was a springer.
So what I clipped
was actually white.
But he was liver colored.
So it was a reddish brown spot.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I saw reddish
brown in my mind's eye.
I did.
I see the plastic bag.
I see that.
I also see a cross.
I see candles.
I see photographs.
And I see, not only that though,
but I feel you had many dogs.
And I got to tell you that I'm
thanking you from the spirit
world from the animal kingdom,
and that you're very kind.
And you're more
kind to the animal
than you are kind to yourself.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And on
behalf of your doggies,
especially this one--
please-- loves you very much.
Would you please love yourself?
You're fabulous.
You just got to know it.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: All right?
I'm going to leave
you with that.
Thank you.
God bless you.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
you know, when we
do these readings or messages
from the spirit world,
it's always also-- it might
be directed to one person.
But it's also-- we can also
experience something from that.
Because we're all human beings.
And we can relate to
many of those issues.
So even though it's great
for one person to receive it,
it's really for
everybody that's watching
the show, that's
here in the audience.
It's very, very true.
I have a man here.
He's a father figure. he comes
in to my left side over here.
And I feel like I'm going to go
in this area right over here.
I'm not sure if I want to
go to that man back there.
But I feel like I want to.
But I'm not sure yet.
So let me just get it.
I have a gentleman
here that passes away.
And I feel like definitely
my lungs are affected.
I'm not sure if it's an
infection in the lungs
or it's a-- I'm not sure.
It just feels like my
lungs either collapsed
or I have issues with my
lungs and I can't breathe.
And I have oxygen.
I have oxygen problems here.
And that would be your
father, wouldn't it?
May I come to please, sir?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I knew it was you.
I had a feeling it was you.
And I got to come to you.
And what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Greg.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Greg.
Would you mind standing, Greg?
OK.
So Greg, I had a feeling
that this was your father.
But I had to make sure
the evidence comes
in very strongly.
And I get very, very
emotional with this gentleman.
And I'm just going to tell
you that this healing is
for everybody and you.
And I know you came here
for him today, he said.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: As I get this
gentlemen here, your dad,
I gotta tell you that he's a
very, very outgoing gentleman.
He's a very, very-- I want
to say he's outgoing to me.
He has a lot of
gratitude that he came,
that he came through
here to me and that I
was able to get
some stuff from him.
He's very anxious.
And he's nervous.
And I'm just going to have him
calm down a little bit, OK?
I want to see him.
I see him in a hospital.
And I'm seeing him there.
And I need to ask you if there
was a change in the hospital
rooms please?
Wasn't there?
He was in one room he said.
And then he had to
go to another unit
or another area of the hospital.
>>AUDIENCE: He moved
within the hospital, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
Because I know there
were two different rooms.
One was a room.
And the next is like
a unit of some kind.
I know when I go into
that second unit,
I feel like I
definitely need oxygen.
And I definitely feel
like I have bags over here
and bags over here, IV stuff
going on here and over here.
I know one is hydration.
And he looks at it.
And he's like [SIGHS] And he's
kind of a controlling guy.
He likes to control
his environment.
He never wants to be sick.
He wasn't sick a day in
his life, he said to me.
>>AUDIENCE: That's true.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You know?
And he's proud of that fact.
He's a very proud man.
And he's proud of the
fact that he wasn't sick
a day in his life.
Now, I don't know why the
name Lawrence or Larry
would be significant to him.
>>AUDIENCE: A brother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
Because I know it'd
be significant to him,
the Lawrence and Larry.
Is that still down here, living
Larry, or Larry the spirit?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
They're all gone.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Didn't
Larry go before him?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because I know
that Lawrence or Larry would
have brought him
over, helped him over.
And I know that-- go on.
Yes, yes, you got through.
He's making sure I got through.
He wants to give me
memories, memories.
Now before I was
talking about Texas.
I don't know why I want
to go back to Texas.
But I do.
>>AUDIENCE: I used
to live in Texas.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
>>AUDIENCE: He visited me there.
Because I'm seeing, like, the
state of Texas over your head.
And I know, Greg, that you
would have-- yeah, go on.
Slow down.
He's really excited here.
And would there
have been a birthday
that just finished passing?
>>AUDIENCE: Mine.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because I want
to give you the birthday, yeah.
Something about your
birthday just passed.
I want to give that
birthday greeting.
And you know I was with you.
You know I was with you.
And I like the
new car, something
about getting the new car,
thoughts about the new car.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: I'm thinking
about buying some new cars.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
I'm going to tell you,
it almost feels like it's a gift
from your father for you, OK?
Do you have his belts
or a belt of your dad's?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, I've
got a number of belts
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I know you have my ties.
>>AUDIENCE: A few.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
I know you have that.
One looks like it's striped.
>>AUDIENCE: Mhm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes?
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Good, good, good.
Now, I know that the time
in Texas he's going back to,
I feel you would have
lived there, yes.
But I don't know if you
would have lived there,
then you left.
And you could have
come back again.
>>AUDIENCE: I worked for IBM.
So I was in and
out of Texas a lot.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, OK.
Because I keep going in and out.
And this is what
he's going on about.
And before I was
talking to a lady.
And I got the name
Parker, Parker.
Now that might be for you.
>>AUDIENCE: Parker, Texas.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's it.
Because this gentleman
just said that to me.
He goes, it was me trying
to get that through.
Sorry.
We got our wires crossed.
But that does happen.
See, isn't that interesting?
So that's significant.
You understand that.
And that's where
there's validation.
Now-- got it.
Got it.
Got it. [WHISTLES] Pickup
truck, the big pickup truck--
you have a big pickup truck
or he had a big pickup truck,
or somebody got
the pickup truck.
>>AUDIENCE: I got the truck.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
OK, yeah, he knows about it.
I know that your
dad likes details.
And I know that your dad likes
to tell people what to do.
I know that he likes be told,
you're going to do this.
It's going to be this way.
And he gets really
upset when his words
aren't follow through.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: He was a New
York City police officer.
He's used to giving orders.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Well, that's very
interesting, because before, I
was getting saluting.
So that's really interesting.
Because I was getting this.
And I didn't bring it forth.
But this whole thing about
saluting-- and that's
either military or police.
And isn't it interesting we
had a police person here right
when we started.
There are no accidents.
I know this is a common name.
But would you know
the name of Mary?
>>AUDIENCE: Grandmother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because I want to give a
love from a Mary to you.
And I know that when
you were a little baby,
you were a little
tough little baby.
You were a little
And you would cry a
lot, she was telling me.
And she's funny about that.
She's funny about that.
And-- go on.
Go on.
Do you play golf?
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Have you been talking
about playing golf recently
with a friend?
You were talking to
somebody about playing golf.
Isn't that right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good.
Because your dad and the
grandma is coming in here.
And they're just coming in.
And they're telling
me about that.
They're telling you
had plans in your mind
or you either called
somebody up or thought,
you know, I got to get out
there and get the golf going.
Are the clubs in a
garage or something?
>>AUDIENCE: They're
in a motor home.
>>VAN PRAAGH: A motor home.
OK.
Your father's all
connected with that.
I don't know why,
but he's connected
with that, the motor
home, the whole thing.
And why do I want to
go to Arizona as well?
Did you go on a trip to Arizona
or did he want to go to a trip
to Arizona?
Do you remember that?
>>AUDIENCE: Well, we're
thinking about going to Arizona.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
There you go.
Because I'm seeing the red rock.
I'm seeing Sedona.
And I'm seeing Phoenix.
I'm seeing the whole
beautiful area.
You're going to go.
Your father's telling
me you're going to go.
And I want to go to the
month of May for a birthday.
Who's coming up in May?
Is it his birthday?
Or is it-- what's
significant in May.
>>AUDIENCE: My wife's
birthday is in May.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your
wife's in May.
OK, very good, very good.
Where is she now, your wife?
>>AUDIENCE: At home.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Why
isn't she here?
[LAUGHS]
>>AUDIENCE: She's--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Did you tell her
you were coming here today?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
I know that they
wanted to say hello to her.
I want you to ask that Kathleen
is related to her and find out.
And I just want to know-- go on.
Yeah, your father's
saying-- he's so funny.
He's a real jokester, your dad.
He is a joker, joker, joker.
I know when he was
is in the '50s,
he used to smoke
cigarette, you know?
Because I get that [EXHALES].
And I know that.
I'm very much aware
that they would
have been Camel cigarettes.
>>AUDIENCE: Exactly.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
Because it's Camel cigarettes
there's just a big camel,
right?
>>AUDIENCE: And that's why
he had oxygen at the end.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You got
what you deserved?
He said-- he goes, I
got what I deserved.
And I know that the word lucky
means something-- so L-U-C-K-Y.
And I don't know.
It's lucky-- so lucky something,
lucky supermarket, lucky--
>>AUDIENCE: Lucky Strikes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Lucky Strikes.
>>AUDIENCE: He smoked those
before he smoked Camels.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, oh, OK.
How weird, right?
Oh, my goodness.
And I'm also being
shown a baseball mitt.
I'm being shown a baseball mitt.
And if I were to go back to
your childhood with your father,
would you know anything
about a baseball mitt?
>>AUDIENCE: Sure.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would
you and him played
throwing games like
throwing a ball?
Because I want to go to a memory
of playing catch with you.
And I need to go to a
small park, not a big park.
But it's a small park.
I don't know, maybe
it was New York.
I'm not sure.
But I feel like I'm
in a small park.
We're playing catch.
And he's teaching
me about baseball,
little league,
this sort of thing.
And do you remember that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I want
you to remember that.
And that's how he wants you
to remember him, that time.
Because that's very,
very real for him.
You understand?
Very, very real.
And I know that he almost lost
his life once, either work
related, he almost
lost his life.
You know about that.
And he's telling me that he did.
And he was spared.
And he's proud.
Who's Brian, by the way?
Who's a Brian.
>>AUDIENCE: I've got--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Family,
nephew, or something?
>>AUDIENCE: --a lot of
Brians in the family.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
There must be a
nephew named Brian.
>>AUDIENCE: Mhm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And he's just
giving love to this Brian.
For some reason, Brian's
getting into special work
or doing something different.
And I know it's a very
special type of work
he's getting involved in.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
he's definitely
guiding him and helping him.
And it's just about a new
shift in a job, new job,
or doing something
brand new, OK?
And people were like,
ooh, he shouldn't do that
or, ooh, this is kind of weird.
He'll be fine.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: All right.
I'm gong to leave
you with that, OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much, Greg.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So a very
interesting question people
ask all the time-- if I gave
Greg a reading, I give someone
else a reading, can the
information sometimes be
for one person other than
the person in the audience.
And the answer is yes.
It's very much like
if we're walking down
the street in a summer day.
And there's a party going
on in a house over here.
And what's our first
inclination as we walk by?
>>AUDIENCE: See what's up.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Look.
We're going to want to look
and see what's going on.
So when you sit here and we
work with the spirit world
and we open up the
portal, lets say, open up
that doorway to spirit, and they
see that there's an opportunity
to come through, you bet
they're going to take it.
They'll try to come through
any way they possibly
can, whether it's through
another person's reading
and they tag on,
which they do a lot.
And I'm trying to focus
so much on one person.
I like here, trying to hear it.
And I just hear what I hear.
They might jump into
the conversation.
So what I'd like to do
is I'd just like to-- I
know probably a lot of that made
sense to you, this lady here.
What I would like to do is to
maybe bring you up on stage
and do a reading.
Honey, what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Janet.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Janet.
Are you OK, Janet?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, I'm fine.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So a
lot of information
I was giving for that other
gentlemen, Greg, made sense
to yourself.
And I just want to work
with you a little bit here.
I know your brother passed over.
But there's also a lady that
comes in right here with you.
And you beat yourself up all
the time, she says to me.
Why do you beat yourself up?
So there's a lady in the
spirit world that passes over
and I have a heart condition.
I have a heart-- this
is what brings me
to the other side of
life, a heart problem.
>>AUDIENCE: OK, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do
you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Mhm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I'm not sure if it's
a mother or mother-in-law
or a grandmother.
But there's something like this.
>>AUDIENCE: It could be both.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, I'm going
to go with my mother-in-law
for right now--
>>AUDIENCE: OK,
yeah, it makes sense.
>>VAN PRAAGH: --until
I feel that first.
But let's see.
I don't know if she was
a compulsive shopper
and she liked to save things.
>>AUDIENCE: She
loved to save things.
>>VAN PRAAGH: If I
go to her garage,
wouldn't I have things in
that garage on the shelves
of saving, either
groceries, or she
would go to one of these
big places for food
and buy extra stuff.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And she would
put that in the garage.
>>AUDIENCE: She
had a storage unit.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She had
a storage unit, OK.
And do you remember
her-- would you remember?
Because you're showing me a
picture of putting these items.
Gosh.
It's like a Smart &
Final or something.
And I go and I get all these
items or groceries or paper
products and I
just put them away.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, yeah.
It's--
>>VAN PRAAGH: It
makes sense to you.
>>AUDIENCE: --kind of
like bulk shopping.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, yeah bulk
shopping, bulk shopping.
Exactly right.
Because I know that
I'm an avid shopper.
I like to do that, OK?
Can I just tell you that
this lady also, she-- right.
Go on.
She's with her son.
>>AUDIENCE: OK, yes.
Uh huh, uh huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And when
your brother passes over,
I'm going to tell you that I
know that I'm passing over.
So he knew he was passing over.
And he keeps-- he's
coming this way.
He knew he was passing over.
Now, it's funny because
of the car thing.
Because yes, that
is him with a car.
I want to talk about you either
taking a picture of him out
of a frame or redoing
a photograph of him.
And I don't know if was
after he passed over
I wanted to redo the photo.
Do you understand that, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, definitely.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I know that he
wanted you to know that.
So this other lady's helping
him out-- and he'll tell you--
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: --helping
the connection to happened.
And there's a man there also.
He'll tell you that.
Go, go, go.
Sports, sports, sports,
sports, sports sports-- OK.
I want to talk also about--
yes, yes, go on, go on, go on.
He comes close to me.
He's talking about, I know
when you put the picture there,
you changed the photograph.
I know the photograph
that you frame.
I'm very aware of that.
And I also want to ask you,
were there two different places
that there were funerals
or memorial services?
Were there two different cities
or two different memorial
services, please?
>>AUDIENCE: He was just
recognized in another town too.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
OK, so there was something else
besides the city or town he
was, somewhere else,
because he said twice, OK?
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
when we're younger,
was there someone--
your parents--
who drove a Cadillac car or
had a Cadillac or someone?
>>AUDIENCE: It
might have been me
in an earlier part of my life.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Wan't
he alive then?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And didn't
he see that Cadillac car?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, oh, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And weren't
you really happy at the time?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, I was.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
weren't you happier
in that time of your life
more than you are now?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He's
telling me that, OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Uhuh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
I know that I want
to go to that energy in
that lifetime, that time
in your life, back to
that period of time.
And I want to see
how beautifully
naive, in some ways,
and open you are.
And I know that there
was another relationship
at the time in your life.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, uh huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
he goes on about that
was the relationship
in your time.
But you were much
more yourself then.
>>AUDIENCE: That's right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I got to yell you,
he's kind of your
guardian angel as well.
You know that.
Your brother talks to you
all the time in the car.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, he does.
He does talk to me.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And it's funny
about the car, because he's
in that car all the time.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Who's a July
birthday, July, June, July?
>>AUDIENCE: June-- my daughter.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, OK.
Go on.
Yes, I got you.
I want to talk about two
different relationships.
He wants to go back there.
And if I can go to-- I'm just
bringing what he's giving me.
>>AUDIENCE: No, no, that's fine.
That's fine.
Perfect.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I just
want you to realize
that you wished for
something to happen.
And it happened.
And he said, you've got to
be careful what you wish for.
>>AUDIENCE: I know.
[LAUGHS]
>>VAN PRAAGH: It
makes sense to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Now your
mother's cleaning.
Your mother comes in
and she's cleaning.
And she's just
cleaning, cleaning,
cleaning, cleaning, cleaning.
And all she wants to do is clean
things up, scrub things up.
She wants to clean up the table.
She wants to clean.
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that.
She loves her cleaning supplies.
She loves her cleaning things.
She loves the polishing.
>>AUDIENCE: To
have cleaning days.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, because
she had cleaning days.
OK, cleaning days.
I just get that.
Your brother's tell me this too.
It's really, really true.
Good, good, good.
When did your mom pass?
>>AUDIENCE: She hasn't.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh,
she's still here.
OK.
And were you just talking
to her on the phone
this morning or yesterday?
>>AUDIENCE: I'm going to today.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh,
you're going to today.
>>AUDIENCE: I do on Mondays.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would you tell
her hello from the brother.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'm
getting really emotional.
And would you let
her know she doesn't
need to feel bad
for him anymore.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, she found him.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know.
She doesn't need to feel
bad for him anymore.
And she didn't cause
this to happen.
And it was nothing to
do with her at all.
And he's sorry that she
had to find him that way.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Uhuh, I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I got to
tell you, with his passing,
he didn't suffer.
And it was a build up.
>>AUDIENCE: Uhuh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It was a build up.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You know that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I hope people learn from it.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
He said he was not
going to-- he was
going to go before they would.
He couldn't handle it.
So-- Yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
I'm not going to get
into the details,
because we know the details.
No reason to.
But would you please
tell Mom I love her.
And please--
>>AUDIENCE: Be happy too.
I would be happy too.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'll
leave you with that.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you very much.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, honey.
You're very welcome.
Thank you.
Well, that was very nice.
Thank you very, very much.
And thank you, everybody,
for taking part in today.
And I hope that you go away now
with maybe a different sense
of awareness about who you
are, your own power within,
your own sense of
knowingness, and know
that the truth is right here.
It's in your heart.
When you come to the right
space, the right place,
it will always develop
and manifest in your life.
And if you think love, be
love, you will have love.
So please remember that.
And until I see you again,
love and light to all of you.
Thank you very much.
Thank you all so very much.
[APPLAUSE]
[THEME MUSIC]